# PurposeThe purpose of this project is to create an open GUI for 5dchess engines. The Gui will be a functional game, however it is still recommended to use the steam implementation of the game for competitive, and casual play. The main purpose of the project is to interface with engines, so engine developers do not have to develop a specific GUI for their engine. This GUI may also facilitate engine v. engine matches, as well as puzzles.## Proposed Features* - GUI for 5d Chess* - Ability to load games from a FEN like format* - Ability to Make, Load Puzzles from FEN* :x: Ability to interface with 5d Engines in a UCI like protocol* :x: Human V. Bot and Bot V. Bot Matches.Key:1. :x: not started2. - not finished3. % WIP4. :white_check_mark: finished# Custom raw notationThis GUI uses a custom raw notation, dissimilar to other notations developed by other 5dChess community members. This notation is not meant to be human readable, but rather meant for an engine. In a 2d chess engine, you may notice that moves are denoted in long algebraic notation _ie_. > e2e4In this gui, notation for a move will look like>(x<sub>origin</sub>,y<sub>origin</sub>,T<sub>origin</sub>,L<sub>origin</sub>)(x<sub>dest</sub>,y<sub>dest</sub>,T<sub>dest</sub>,L<sub>dest</sub>)With x being the file, y being rank, T being time, and L being Layer/Timeline.A whole Turn will look like>(x<sub>M1o</sub>,y<sub>M1o</sub>,T<sub>M1o</sub>,L<sub>M1o</sub>)(x<sub>M1d</sub>,y<sub>M1d</sub>,T<sub>M1d</sub>,L<sub>M1d</sub>);(x<sub>M2o</sub>,y<sub>M2o</sub>,T<sub>M2o</sub>,L<sub>M2o</sub>)(x<sub>M2d</sub>,y<sub>M2d</sub>,T<sub>M2d</sub>,L<sub>M2d</sub>)…With moves separated by semicolons. A promotion would look like> (x<sub>origin</sub>,y<sub>origin</sub>,T<sub>origin</sub>,L<sub>origin</sub>)(x<sub>dest</sub>,y<sub>dest</sub>,T<sub>dest</sub>,L<sub>dest</sub>)=Qand castling is denoted normally, with layer added> &lt;MOVE&gt;;O-O,L;&lt;MOVE&gt;Lastly, there may be the need to show a null move, which is denoted as:> 0000Formally, the moves should follow an order where destination layer is from top to bottom however this is not enforced by the engine. Branching moves must always be ordered how they occur however.# UCIThis project will eventually implement a protocol to interface with engines. I am now considering UCI and looking at the referece <https://www.stmintz.com/ccc/index.php?id=360181>.# FENThis project will use a custom FEN format to load gamestates into the GUI/ into the engines.The format that is used is based off of the FEN format with some tweaks. The starting position in normal fen is: > rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - 0 1with each field separated by whitespace. Read more about Fen at the wiki page:<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forsyth%E2%80%93Edwards_Notation>As of now __*this is not final but a planned proposal, that is somewhat implemented*__, an example of the format is as follows:>8;8;1;0> >rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR;KQkq;-;1wEach field is separated by a semicolon.In addition to the regular fields, there are also fields at the beginning for width and height at the beginning. If there are multiple Timelines then the Fen is formatted as follows>(width);(height);(number of timelines);(Min Timeline);(turnColor);(-0,+0 status)>>(FENPieceFormat);(CastlingRights);(EnPassantSquare);(TimeStart);(NumberofMoves);(RawFormatMoves)>>...In this case, Timestart is equal to the start of the timeline, with a char 'w' or 'b' with the start of the timeline. +-0 status is if the gamestate starts with 2 timelines, or an even number of timelines and should be a value T or F, T being the gamestate is a +-0 variant. For instance, timeline fragments would be the following>4;4;2;-0;w;T>>nbru/4/4/KPPP;;-;w1;0;>>kppp/4/4/NBRU;;-;0;1;b1;0;Timers for 50 move rule are removed as those non existent as of now in 5d chess. Puzzles are also a planned feature. for instance rook tactics 4 would be the following:>4;4;2;0;b>>r2k/4/4/P2K;;-;w1;3;(1,1,1,0)(1,2,1,0);(1,4,1,0)(3,4,1,0);(4,1,2,0)(3,2,1,0)>>r2k/4/2K1/P2K;;-;b1;2;(1,4,1,1)(1,2,1,1);(3,2,2,1)(2,3,2,1)In the future I may add functionality to specify mate in x with a puzzle. Puzzles will not be viable however until there is an engine that can make correct defensive/offensive refutations of certain moves. one possible idea is to create a lookup table for the engine for refutations in puzzles, but this may be too long for creators/ long mates or attacks.# Other Projects and resourcesThere are several other projects and programs that will probably surpass this one.Original 5d Implementation on steam: <https://5dchesswithmultiversetimetravel.com/>Alexbay's GitLab:<https://gitlab.com/alexbay218/5d-chess-js>Alexbay's 5dChess:<https://chessin5d.net/#/>Alexbay's Discord Channel:<https://discord.gg/KP5vApW>Shad's Engine:<https://github.com/adri326/5dchess-tools/>Hexicubes Viewer:<https://github.com/Hexicube/5D-Chess-Game-Viewer>L0laapk3 5dChess:<https://multiversechess.com/># NotesThis project is being developed using eclipse, all source code is in the src folder. I will periodically export the code as a jar file.# CopyrightThis engine was made without reference to source or decompiled code from the software "5d Chess With Multiverse Time Travel" developed by LLC. Thunkspace. This project simply recreates ideas presented within the game, And therefore does not violate copyright as game rules are non copyrightable.All sprites within the game are created by me.