# Class Overview# enginethe engine package handles everything related to the logic of the gamestate# fileIOThe fileIO package handles all of the fileIO and parsing tthat happens inside of the program.## FENParserThis class loads FEN like files into the program. The format that is used is based off of the FEN format with some tweaks. The starting position in normal fen is: > rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - 0 1with each field separated by whitespace. Read more about Fen at the wiki page:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forsyth%E2%80%93Edwards_NotationAs of now __*this is not final but a planned proposal*__, an example of the format is as follows:>8;8;1;0> >rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR;KQkq;-;1wEach field is separated by a semicolon.In addition to the regular fields, there are also fields at the beginning for width and height at the beginning. If there are multiple Timelines then the Fen is formatted as follows>(width);(height);(number of timelines);(startingTimeline);(turnColor)>>(FENPieceFormat);(CastlingRights);(EnPassantSquare);(TimeStart);(NumberofMoves);(RawFormatMoves)>>...In this case, Timestart is equal to the start of the timeline, with a char 'w' or 'b' with the start of the timeline. For instance, timeline fragments would be the following>4;4;2;-0;w>>nbru/4/4/KPPP;;-;w1;0;>>kppp/4/4/NBRU;;-;0;1;b1;0;Timers for 50 move rule are removed as those non existent as of now in 5d chess. Puzzles are also a planned feature. for instance rook tactics 4 would be the following:>4;4;2;+1;b>>r2k/4/4/P2K;;-;w1;3;(1,1,1,0)(1,2,1,0);(1,4,1,0)(3,4,1,0);(4,1,2,0)(3,2,1,0)>>r2k/4/2K1/P2K;;-;b1;2;(1,4,1,1)(1,2,1,1);(3,2,2,1)(2,3,2,1)In the future I may add functionality to specify mate in x or whatever, but then the puzzle would require a good engine which we don't have yet. The engine will automatically determine inactive timelines for these fens, and there is no support of -0/+0 although I do plan to create a quick an dirty hack by starting the game with 0,+1 timeline and allowing white an extra branch, which will effectively create the gamemode although the timelines will be off when viewed.# GUIThe GUI package handles all the GUI functions and communicating with the global gamestate.# main# testThe test package handles testing for the program. This package can be largely ignored by users/ readers.#uciI plan to create a uci like system to read input from engines and to display the thoughts of the engine to the GUI. this is a long ways away.